playing out before our eyes is enough to
make one lose faith in
humanity how could Hamas carry out such
barbaric acts of Terror how could Hamas
gun down civilians burn families alive
and execute children and do so with
Glee how could AAS make
take take more than 200 people
hostage innocent civilians including a
9-month old baby and his four-year-old
brother how could AAS justify taking a
23-year-old American citizen Hirsch
whose parents I met this week and the
answer is they cannot there is no
justification for Terror none whatsoever
you all know that and we must condemn
hamas's acts of Terror Hamas goals are
single-minded and they're sickening they
are determined to destroy Israel and
kill Jews and let's be clear Hamas has
never cared about the genuine needs or
concerns or safety of the people it
claims to represent and Hamas has no
respect for the rule of law or human
life to them Palestinian civilians are
expendable to them Palestinian civilians
are human Shields and it really is
Despicable and it's
cowardly the lives of innocent
Palestinians must be protected the lives
of un personnel and humanitarian workers
and journalists must be
protected and we mourn we mourn the loss
of every single innocent life in this
crisis every single
one we must not look away and we must
not become numb to the pain pain and the
suffering of people like w
elu a Palestinian journalist whose wife
son daughter and Grandson were killed in
Gaza this
week and my heartbreaks for a while my
heart breaks for all all of the innocent
civilians who are caught up in this
crisis colleagues the United States has
made clear in both public and private
conversations that as Israel exercises
its right and indeed its responsibility
to defend its people against the
terrorist group it must do so in line
with the rules of War there are no lawf
free zones in
war International humanitarian law must
be respected throughout Gaza and the
region by All
actors President Biden and secretary
blinkin in partnership with the UN and
Regional actors are engaged in direct
diplomacy to help protect the lives of
all civilians and to ensure humanitarian
assistance can flow into
Gaza as humanitarian organizations have
stressed the needs of Palestinians in
Gaza are dire so many families lack
access to food clean water and other
Essentials and hospitals need fuel to
keep patients
alive this is a humanitarian emergency
and we're doing everything in our power
to save lives the United States is the
single largest donor to the Palestinian
people having contributed more than1
billion dollar to unra since
2021 and last week President Biden
announced an additional $100 million in
humanitarian assistance for the
Palestinian Ian people in Gaza and the
West Bank while in the region President
Biden also secured an agreement with
Israel Egypt and the United Nations that
allowed Aid to start reaching
Gaza but much more needs to be done much
much more is needed and it's needed
urgently we continue to encourage Israel
Egypt and all Partners to take concrete
steps to alleviate this human Arian
crisis just as we continue to urge and
encourage all member states particularly
those with the greatest capacity to give
to help us meet the un's appeal for the
humanitarian situation in
Gaza colleagues time is of the essence
and lives hang in the
balance as you'll
notice two key words are missing
in the resolution before
us the first is Hamas it is outrageous
that this resolution fails to name the
perpetrators of the October 7th
terrorist attack
Hamas Hamas it is
outrageous another key word missing in
this resolution is
hostage this resolution makes no mention
of the innocent people including
citizens of many of you in this room
many of you here today who are who have
citizens who are being held hostage by
Hamas and other terrorist
groups these are omissions of evil and
they give cover to and they Empower
hamas's brutality in no member State no
member State should allow
that to happen you should not let it
stand and that is why we have
co-sponsored an amendment put forward by
Canada that corrects these glaring
omissions this amendment is
straightforward and it's unobjectionable
it calls on us to condemn hamas's
terrorist attacks on October 7th and it
calls for the immediate and
unconditional release of hostages it
should be easy this is the bare
minimum that we would hope to see in
this resolution we urge all member
states to vote Yes on this amendment the
general assembly must send a clear
message to the world that we stand
against all acts of Terror and that we
stand with all those who are being held
hostage we believe the UN Security
Council a body charged with maintaining
International Peace and security must
send this same message and that's why
this week we put forward a security
Council resolution that garnered the
support of the majority of the council
in drafting this text we solicited input
from all council members including
Russia and China and the product of our
consultations was a balanced and strong
resolution that among other things
condemned hamas's terrorist ATT attacks
call for the immediate and unconditional
release of hostages stress the urgency
of addressing the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza including through humanitarian
pauses and made clear that we must keep
the hope of a two-state solution
alive again this was a strong and
balanced text but unfortunately Russia
and China decided to veto this
resolution
and while the United States work to
forge consensus around a balanced
product Russia has put forward bad faith
one-sided resolutions without any
consultations
whatsoever colleagues one-sided
resolutions whether they are put forward
in the security Council or the general
assembly will not help to advance
peace not when they ignore the facts on
the ground once ided resolutions are
purely rhetorical documents that seek to
divide us at a time when we should all
be coming together and we must not cling
to longstanding lines of
division as President Biden said
yesterday there's no going back to the
status quo as it stood on October 6 we
must not go back to the status quo where
Hamas terrorizes Israel and uses
Palestinian civilians as human Shields
and we must not go back to status
quo where extremist settlers can attack
and terrorize Palestinians in the West
Bank the status quo is untenable and it
is
unacceptable this means that when this
crisis is over there has to be a vision
of what comes next in our view that
Vision must be centered around a
two-state
solution getting there will require
concerted efforts by all of us Israelis
Palestinians Regional partners and
global leaders to put us on a path for
peace to integrate Israel with the
region while insisting that the
aspirations of the Palestinian people to
be part of a more hopeful
future we deep ly regret that the
resolution now under consideration is
detrimental to this
Vision but while this resolution is
deeply flawed and does not meet this
moment the United States will continue
to work with all member states to chart
a future where Israelis and Palestinians
have equal measures of security freedom
justice opportunity and dignity and a
future where Palestinians realize their
legitimate right to
self-determination and a state of their
own thank you very
much